# Flutter Challenge

- Sample project assumes APIs are being built and some static data is used for sample
- A mock user list with various roles is used and based on role users see one of two detail pages.
- Strongly typed data models have been created for users and scheduling
- Users with a provider role can make a date and time selection to create a timeblock
- When providers have selected a date, start time, and end time. Upon clicking the save button the DateTime values are passed along with providerId to the stub for the webservice, the values are logged out to the conosle.
- Users with a client role are shown a list of timeblocks, or 15 minute segments
- When client users select a segment they are prompted to reserve that timeslot and a web service call to save that has been stubbed out with logging of the parameters.

  Video of app functionality available on [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1o-zg_cwMuilRj99WVsjq_GIbrtM-1Fr-/view?usp=sharing)

## Trade-offs
- To speed up development for client timeslot selection I did not add any dateTime data to the timeslot object and all data in mock is simple/best case scenario
- Provider Timeblock Screen could be further developed into a mult-step selection as well as providing CRUD operations to show and allow for updating of prior saved timeblocks.
- Initially I wanted to use a calendar view type dependency like [calendar_view](https://pub.dev/packages/calendar_view), but decided against it to stay within the 2 hour time limit.

## Dependencies Used

- [Dio](https://pub.dev/packages/dio)
- [Build Runner](https://pub.dev/packages/build_runner)
- [JSON Serializable](https://pub.dev/packages/json_serializable)
- [JSON Annotation](https://pub.dev/packages/json_annotation)


### Created Strongly Typed Models

Assuming we have the following node response from an endpoint, these are the steps to create a strongly typed data model to reflect the data

    "timeslots": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "providerName": "Dr. Joe Smith",
      "providerId": 1,
      "prettyStartTime": "3:00pm",
      "prettyEndTime": "3:15pm",
      "isAvailable": false
    }]

Inside of the models folder (or subfolder) create a Dart file named person.dart in addition crate a Dart file called `timeslot.g.dart`
Within the person.dart file add the link to the `.g.dart` file and define the attributes you'd like to type. In addition add factory call to the toJson function that will be generated by `json_serializable`

    class TimeSlot {
    /// The generated code assumes these values exist in JSON.
    final int id;
    final String providerName;
    final int providerId;
    final String prettyStartTime;
    final String prettyEndTime;
    late bool isAvailable;

    TimeSlot(
      {required this.id,
      required this.providerName,
      required this.providerId,
      required this.prettyEndTime,
      required this.prettyStartTime,
      required this.isAvailable});

    factory TimeSlot.fromJson(Map<String, dynamic> json) =>
      _$TimeSlotFromJson(json);
    }

Once the code has been created in the class file run the command `flutter pub run build_runner build --delete-conflicting-outputs` to automatically generate the code to parse that object
